The Original Duo
--------------------------
Yew: A human turned into an Axew with no memories. Kind of shy, but holds strong opinions and bold about them. Quiet but thinks a lot type. (classic)
Loyal friend but also kind of needs to be around people sometimes.

Rio: A riolu who's home was peacefully integrated into the dark. They didn't like this and ran away. They don't like the Dark because it felt like it
was changing all the people in their home. They lived nicely in Oreville with their parents. However, they got lost in a mystery dungon running away.
They were rescued by a Ty who taught Rio the basic things about mystery dungeons and crawlers. They worked together a pretty short while. When Ty left,
they told Rio to try and a find a partner, for mystery dungeons were dangerous alone and left his bed with Rio.
Inspired by (and a bit idolizing) Ty, Rio then set out to be an independant crawler away from Oreville in River Town.
They were still pretty inexperienced though, but could pull off easy jobs. Few pokemon are keen on going into mystery dungeons. 
This and some foreging were enough to get food and a small home.

Rio is very empathetic and has a strong heart. They are more social and try to make the pokemon around them happy all the time.
Though, this means they can be influenced a bit easily sometimes. They are not shy, but sometimes lacks self confidence. 
Still not too much fear talking to other pokemon of all types. Nothing super crazy though.

The Pokemon of River Town
--------------------------
Lot: An older Lotad in river town. Never decided to evolve. Mainly tends to his garden near the river and kind of keeps to himself.
Lud: Lives with Lot. The two run a food store, Wet Food.
Ursa: Ursaring living in river town.
Ted: Ursa's cub 

The Pokemon of Green Base
--------------------------

Team Raiders
--------------------------
Gal: A gallade of the Raiders, a well known crawler team in Green Base. He is one of the old heros of the base, living in the temple. 
He is quite compasionate, well spoken, and polite. He has a cool temper and is perceptive of humans, once living among them before being released by his
trainer in the world of pokemon with a request to protect the pokemon of the world. He has an extreme distaste for many people associated with the Dark
because of their extreme agression towards human artifacts and mystery dungeons. In many ways, Gal is the heart of the Raiders, not to say he isn't good
at planning and thinking through things though. 
Gal has a strong sense of purpose against the Dark, but sometimes finds the origin of this feeling a bit cloudy and can be in want to clear this. In a
way he kind of works despite this, almost ignoring the source of his motivation. At one point he was a member of the counsel of the king, but this isn't
super well known information. A cool arc would be him figuring out his motivation is to help Gisela. His old name before taking on Gal was Irminhart.

Crow: A honchkrow who is a bit talkative and short tempered, but the most accountable of the Raders. She makes sure everything gets done and everyone
pulls their weight. Crow is also a super good planner and schedular and whatnot. They are a bit of a foil to Gal.

Don: A reliable rhyperior of the Raiders. He's all around nice pokemon to be around.

Sara: A confident roserade of the Raiders. She's a fun pokemon to be around.

Probably some more pokemon in Team Raiders


Wanderers Characters
--------------------------
Ty: A normal hisuian typhlosion. An experienced independent crawler. Rescued Rio. She once came from the Red Base.
Peli: A pelipper. She delivers the mail around east Weleira.

Figures of Legend
--------------------------
Human King: This was the human king of legend. Once a great ruler of Waleira, he left to learn about mystery dungeons. He got lost once and was never
seen again. The king had traveled to Dark Chasm and become, for a time, the master of Giratina, before falling prey to his own mortality and joining the
spirits of the Dark Chasm.

Gisela: An Aegislash once on the counsel to the Human King. She is leader of the Dark. But they are called internally, something else. The reason for
this is because she blames herself for the fall of the kingdom as the person to first bring to light mystery dungeons. 
