The main motivations are the obvious Rio against the Dark and Yew trying to find out about themselves. Rio also deep down wants to grow powerful enough
to do something about the Dark in Ironville and return to their family. They don't really love their parents (maybe family issues, or not) but they feel
like they should. 

Why is Yew a pokemon?: He used to be a human who oversaw the spirits creating mystery dungeons with Giratina. However, seeing the conflict among the 
pokemon, he decided to be reborn as a pokemon to learn what it was like. He ask Girantina to make sure they eventually met again and then set of to be
reborn by Dialga and Palkia. While these legends try to keep suffering at a minimum, they haven't done much yet because they simply don't know the root
of the problems. They are complicated social problems, what could even the legendary creaters do? Arceas maybe could figure it out, but is kind of above
it all. It would be cool if the battle between the Dark and the Crawlers was the motivator for his return. Also yeah, let's just say Yew was the king.

The two could meet with Rio finding Yew in a dungeon on an expedition and then vows to help them find about themselves. The two travel together a little
bit and Rio teaches Yew a little and talks about the Dark maybe? But then the two take over a mission too big for them to handle taking them to the
mystery dungeon in a forest near River Town. They are about to be kicked out of the dungeon but are saved by Gal. Gal sensing Yew doesn't *feel* like a
pokemon takes the Yew and Rio back to Green Base and kind of takes them in to train and learn a bit more about them.

Why aren't the counsel members dying? Because the king didn't want them to. He wanted them to keep his legacy going, but instead they split into the 
Crawlers and the Dark. 

Total Would Be Cools
--------------------------------------------------------------------
There should be an agislash somewhere to forshadow some sort of strong leader. <--- this is Gisela. 

A delta species pokemon would be sick! <--- I think the way to do this type of thing is with the Dark. I think it'd be cool if their inner circles are
like super techy. The group doesn't like the old human stuff, probably stemming from Gisela wanting to forget it, but still moves forward with their 
tech.

Gal should mega-evolve at some point. Probably in a climatic battle where he gets struck down (you know, killing the mentor character) and then Rio and
Yew get captured by the dark. I don't love fake out deaths, but it would be super cool if Gal then came back as an Iron Valiant, constructed by Gisela
and other pokemon of the Dark at her behest because she could not let another member of the counsel die. Literal Darth Vader moment.
